Israel's strikes are increasing in
intensity and frequency it's using Force
as it looks for a diplomatic solution to
crossb tensions with
Hezbollah Israel wants the Lebanese
armed group to pull back from the
border if Hezbollah chooses to start an
allout War then it will by its own hand
turn Beirut and Southern Lebanon into
Gaza and
conun Israel is looking for security
guarantees before the tens of thousands
of its residents can return to their
homes in the north of the country they
were evacuated when Hezbollah opened a
front to help relieve Gaza from Israel's
Onslaught French and American envoys
have been visiting Beirut trying to
mediate a political arrangement to end
the crossb
fighting there was also the visit of the
chief of French intelligence who
reportedly said Lebanon could face big
threats if doesn't move north of the
Lani River and implement the UN
resolution but those threats came to
nothing Israel says UN resolution 1701
adopted after its last war against
Hezbollah in 2006 was never implemented
it calls for the disarmament of all
non-state armed forces in Lebanon and
the region from the border to the Lani
River free from arms and Fighters
outside State Control no UN resolution
uh can lead to that without short of a
uh military uh intervention uh I mean
obviously this is not uh uh desired by
the Israeli nor by the Americans at this
point the US is also pushing to resolve
border disagreements that gives
Hezbollah a reason to remain armed
Hezbollah has not commented on Israel's
demand to pull back from the border but
its allies have been defiant they say
the international border is clear and
known and not up for negotiations Israel
is the one violating resolution 1701 and
if Israel wants security it should
create a buffer zone on its side of the
Border Hezbollah has said this border
will remain an active front until Israel
stops its attacks on Gaza and the
situation is gradually escalating the
area of military operation has widened
with the front line moving several
kilometers deeper inside both countries
Z AL jaaz
Beirut make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer